You will inevitably need to work
with modules that are shipped,
that are distributed as CommonJS modules.
And what do we mean by CommonJS?
So I have one in here, banana.js, I bet.
That's not CommonJS, is Melon?
No, it is, sorry, Banana is.
We have a class called Banana, and
then this is the smoking gun here.
This is the key thing that tells us it's
CommonJS, module.exports = .
So, this is the way Node.js has treated
JS files since its inception,
as far as I'm aware.
You could point Node.js at this today
in a file with a JS extension, and
it would be totally happy to run this.
So how do we deal with files like that?
Well, look,
we're consuming Banana over here.
All these fruit things and talking about
consuming them is making me hungry.
So here we're importing
from this banana file, and
we're importing * as bananaNamespace.
So here we've got
bananaNanamespace.Banana.
In fact, you could also just do this.
You could just do it conventionally.
As long as it's a named export,
You could do this.
When I say a named export,
I mean as long as it's sort of
within an object like this.
It's one of many things
that could be exported.
You could put a comma here and
export a bunch of other stuff
if you wanted to, right?
But namespace importing
is a valid thing to do.
Has anyone here ever modernized
a Node.js library or
something like that,
where you're reaching for the fs module?
It used to be just you do const
fs = require fs as string.
This is what you'd convert it to.
Something like that, right?
And why might you do it this way?
Well, maybe in a bunch of
different places in your module,
you're referring to this fs thing.
And you can just make this one change,
you don't have to perturb a bunch of code
that already assumes
the existence of an fs.
You change this import,
you go about your day.
It's a relatively low-risk code change,
compared to refactoring everything around
so you're doing specific
imports in specific places.
Okay, let's look at something else.
Let's say we have to import
something as a single thing.
So, Melon is also a CommonJS module,
but we're getting an error here.
And if we look at Melon,
let's go look at what melon.js has in it.
Look at that, there's no braces here.
We're exporting Melon as a single thing.
Sometimes you'll see a function here,
right?
We can't do a named import for this.
This isn't a default export, right?
This isn't a default export,
it's not a named export.
It's just saying Melon is all
the exported stuff, right?
There's no picking apart
individual things.
It's the one thing that
we're exporting here.
Not to be confused with
the default export.
Cuz remember, with modern JavaScript
modules, you can have a default export and
also named exports all in the same file.
They don't collide with each other,
it's fine.
But here we're exporting one thing, and
it's sort of hogging
up all the space here.
So we're getting an error message.
And the error message says,
the module can only be
referenced with ECMAScript
imports/exports by turning on
the 'esModuleInterop' flag and
referencing its default export.
We could follow that advice.
But we're not going to.
And here's why.
If you turn on that esModuleInterop flag,
TypeScript is gonna helpfully,
behind the scenes, say, you know what?
I'm gonna treat that Melon thing
as if it's a default export.
And I'm gonna type check
a little bit differently,
such that you're not going
to have a problem here.
And then, let's say we have a library, and
we're gonna emit types that still have
that kind of problematic thing in them.
But it's okay, as long as it's type
checked, with esModuleInterop turned on.
So I call this a viral option.
If you enable this in a library,
and there are other viral options,
we'll talk about those in
the Enterprise TS course.
But if you enable this in a library,
you are forcing all consumers of
that library to also enable this, or
their project will not type check.
And as a library author,
I think that's a bad thing.
I want to leave optionality for
consumers of my code,
I want to let them make
the right decision for them.
Plenty of library consumers
will turn this flag on.
If you're building an app, of course, you
can turn this flag on, that's your app,
who cares?
But I don't wanna force somebody to shift
into a different mode that will affect
their type checking just because I wanna
solve this problem a particular way.
And there's another way to solve it
that doesn't require us imposing
things on consumers of our code.
And here's what we have to do.
And the error message, if we look closely
at it, there's a little wiggle room here.
And it's here.
This module can be only referenced
with ECMAScript imports/exports,
if we turn this flag on.
But there's a way to reference this module
without ECMAScript imports and exports.
And it's using an old style
of TypeScript importing that
predates ES modules being
a standardized thing.
And that's this syntax here.
It's really weird,
this does not work in JavaScript,
import Melon = require ('./melon').
If we look at that,
well, there's the class.
And we can use the Melon constructor,
we can cut it into slices,
everything type checks here.
So I know that the TypeScript core team,
they're trying to steer people in
the direction of, we're trying to
use ES modules and things like that.
But this is a useful escape hatch to know
about, where if you didn't wanna change
the way your project is compiled,
you could still import in this way.
It'll compile to a totally runnable thing,
it's just not an ECMAScript import.
It's a different kind of import,
a specific way that TypeScript
lets you import things.
It looks a little bit like this.
Almost a CJS import, but
we're using the import keyword here.
Rohit says, when you use the syntax
in React, then it'll give an error.
I'm not sure I believe
that that is always true.
I think it's likely you should be able to
adjust your compiler settings to allow
this to work.
Yeah, LJ in chat says it seems weird that
we have so many different options for
import, export,
it seems a little confusing.
I agree,
this is why we're talking about it.
We're in kind of a transitionary
state where old code exists,
new code also exists.
We probably have to
consume a variety of both.
And we need to be able to manage that,
both in library and app code.
So this is part of the reason why
it's worthwhile to focus on this.
>> Will that compile to CommonJS or
ES modules,
depending on what you set the-
>> Yeah, let's let's go look.
So I'm gonna clear this out,
and I'm gonna say,
Actually, I can do this style of
import with any CommonJS module,
even if it's not that special type
where this is sort of a last resort.
So I could still do that.
Now, I don't have to, there's a better
option here, there's the wildcard import.
And look what it compiles to,
perfectly fine CommonJS.
It is literally the same thing as this,
Except the key difference here, and
by the way, with this import here,
look at what it's having to do,
well, cuz we're compiling out to CJS.
So it has to put some poly filling
in there to make that possible.
Here's a little thing have you do
default exports, things like that.
But the important thing at the bottom
is we should just see a require.
Sorry, __importStar(require), right?
So this is actually the real import,
and then it's sort of processing what
the require returns into something that
has a default and all that kind of stuff.
But the important thing is,
in terms of how the import is performed,
it's very, very similar.
The thing that gives us a little
bit extra flexibility here is,
in the wildcard import case,
this thing has to be namespace-ish.
You have to be able to sort of access
several independent things on it.
If we looked at our Banana module here,
this is a namespace-ish thing.
There's a property called
Banana with a capital B, and
its value is the Banana class.
That's a namespace thing, right?
It's an object that has some specific
things that we could pick off of
it and use.
In our Melon class, that's not the case.
So you can almost think of this
type of import, in terms of what's
happening behind the scenes,
as a special case of this, right?
This works even if it's
not namespace-like.
The only time I reach for
this is when no other options will do.
I would prefer to use ECMAScript
imports wherever I can.
But I would prefer to use this,
especially in library code,
over forcing everyone who uses my library
to change the way their imports work.
That seems like an imposition.